{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf840
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red16\green60\blue192;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c6667\c33333\c80000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 When deciding our initial project, our group wanted to do something we were all familiar with, so it was both easier to come up with visual encodings/interactions, as well as to verify that our data was correct. With the 2020 election primaries being in the news so heavily, our decision was to have our project be on recent presidential elections. Initially exploring the data, we had trouble finding data that was complete enough to meet our specifications. This, in addition to the relative lack of importance of older elections in predicting future elections, made us decide to only use data as old as the 1972 election of Nixon vs McGovern.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 For visualization techniques, we wanted a way that the user could interact with the map to see the change over time, as well as compare state to state within an election. To compare over time we decided to implement a slider, as it is a simple and intuitive way for the reader to quickly change the election we wish to view. To compare state to state, we first colored the states red or blue based on which was republican or democrat. Additionally, we made states that are more significantly favoring a specific party, such as California, colored more blue than a state such as Virginia that is less decisive. In this way the reader can compare not only the binary result of a state but also how competitive certain states were compared to others. One topic we did look into that we ended up not doing was a more detailed look at counties within a state. We ultimately decided not to pursue this as the data was difficult to find even for elections in the 70s and 80s, and also in an election it is how the state as a whole votes, not how fragments of a state vote.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 In terms of work, Aidan and Asila worked on the US Map and slider, with Aidan also doing the information when hovering over each state, and most visual changes, such as shading of each state. Tejas and Holden worked on gathering the data and figuring out how to implement it into our design. Additionally, they worked on properly displaying the winner of each election. Overall, we spent roughly 50 man-hours on the project, with most of that being figuring out how to implement our data in D3, along with some of the more complex visuals such as the shading of each state depending on their election results.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 One key design decision was how we implemented the display of the democratic and republican candidates on the side of the map. Initially, we were thinking that we could simply hard-code an array that maps the year to the information of who the candidates were and who won; however, we realized that in the event that our csv changed, then our visualization would be off, and we figured that the purpose of the visualization is to be one layer of visualization over one data source, so we ended up just iterating over all of our data for votes for each state and tallying them up to determine who the winner was and how many votes they had.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 Another key design decision was the hovering over of each state to see the voter information. We ultimately decided that third-parties were not of utmost relevance, even in election years where they received a large share of the vote, such as in 1992. For the sake of space and ease of visualization, we bundled all third parties together in one \'93other\'94 category\'94. In addition to this, we decided to put raw voter numbers rather than a percentage of the vote for two reasons. The first is that there was already a lot of data in our design, and by manually calculating the percentages slowed down our visual enough that we felt it ruined any benefit that might be gained. Additionally, having the raw voter number gives the reader the opportunity to compare how many people voted for a party in consecutive years, which is more telling than simply how the percentage for a specific party has changed.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 Throughout our project there were a few sites we borrowed code from, and we feel the need to mention them here as their public code made our jobs a lot easier. The first, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://gist.github.com/NPashaP/a74faf20b492ad377312"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 https://gist.github.com/NPashaP/a74faf20b492ad377312}}, was used for the base US map, as well as the tooltip skeleton. This made it so that we could spend more time on working with our data and working on parts that made our visualization unique, rather than spending many hours hand making a US map in D3. The second, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://bl.ocks.org/johnwalley/e1d256b81e51da68f7feb632a53c3518"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 https://bl.ocks.org/johnwalley/e1d256b81e51da68f7feb632a53c3518}}, was a site we used for our slider. We knew from the start that we wanted to use a slider to enable the user to change year, and having an existing one allowed us to simply personalize it to our demands.\'a0 Additionally, we got all of our data from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://electionlab.mit.edu/data"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 https://electionlab.mit.edu/data}}.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
}